<!-- To be placed after 'I have a vision for cyberpunk that I have come to realize only I hold — a sacred relationship between man and machine that puts us in right relation with the Earth and each other': -->

The imbalances in our relationships with machines - and that includes not just metal and silicon but money and information - are reflections of imbalances in our other relationships - with each other, and with the earth. The great gift that machines offer us is the precision to see these imbalances clearly and correct them, if we have the will and the courage. Nothing else on this planet expresses the human will as directly as the realm of machines, and that is their purpose. To do this with anything else - art, music, living beings - would not only be uncanny but inhuman. I read an argument once that, from an evolutionary biology standpoint, the uncanny valley must exist because there was a predator in our evolutionary environment that seemed human but wasn't. Evolutionary biology is mostly bunk, but this argument stuck with me - why do we recoil at the almost-human? I now believe that it's fear of our own possibilities. We see in the uncanny our own negative potentials - the inhumanity that each of us carries by nature of being human. There are a strange few of us who are willing to wander the realms between and on the edges, and bring back weird gifts. The edge that I wander is between the human and the machine. It makes me strange and uncanny, and it gives me the ability to see things that others can't. In a tracking society, this gift would be my responsibility to tend and offer to the community. And I'm a tracker, so this is what I do. This book is one of my offerings.